slides.md, before:

# LFE

![Lisp Cycles](http://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/lisp_cycles.png)

Alien technology on BEAM

---

## What's a Lisp?

1. Numbers
  ```lfe
  1
  ```
2. Symbols
  ```lfe
  'a
  ```
3. Lists
  ```lfe
  '(a b c)
  '(1 2 3)
  ```
4. More lists
  ```lfe
  '(1 a (1 2 3) (a b c))
  '((a 1) (b 2) (c 3))
  ```

---

## I was told there would be functions

Luckily, functions are just lists too:

```lfe
(defun hello ()
  (io:format "Hello, World!"))
```

Or a more erlangy helloworld: 

```lfe
(defun hello-server ()
  (spawn (lambda ()
    (receive
      ((tuple sender 'hello)
       (! sender "Hello to you too!"))))))

(defun hello-client () 
  (! (hello-server)
     (tuple (self) hello)))
```

---

## And what's with the apostrophes?

Because code is data and vice versa, quoting denotes what should and shouldn't be evaluated:

```lfe
(defun im-a-function ()
  (+ 2 2))

'(defun im-just-a-list ()
   (+ 2 2))
```

If that wasn't confusing enough, the backquote (or quasiquote) allows unquoting:

```lfe
(defun list-quoted (arg1 arg2)
  '(arg1 arg2))

(defun list-unquoted (arg1 arg2)
  `(,arg1 ,arg2))

(list-quoted 1 2)
; (arg1 arg2)
(list-unquoted 1 2)
; (1 2)
```

---

## Okay, so it's Lisp Flavored, but where's the Erlang?

LFE is in essence just an Erlang library.

![Properties of LFE](otp-properties.png)

---

## Erlang idioms as a Lisp

The purpose of LFE is not to force the semantics of any one Lisp dialect onto the Erlang VM, but rather to provide a transparent, efficient, homoiconic (or "syntaxless") front-end to Erlang.

### Transparent:
Interoperates seamlessly with Erlang and existing standard library.
### Efficient:
Shouldn't introduce a performance hit as you're still effectively writing Erlang.
### Homoiconic:
The syntax of the language is (mostly) identical to its ASTs.

---

## Erlang idioms as a Lisp - Pattern Matching

LFE idioms - such as pattern matching - are really Erlang idioms with a different syntax.

![Pattern matching from LFE](patterns.png)

---

## Comparison to other BEAM languages
<br/>

| Feature		    | LFE		| Elixir	 | Erlang   |
|:------------------------- |:----------------- |:-------------- |:------   |
| Macros              	    | Unhygienic    	| Hygienic	 | C-style  |
| Standard library    	    | Erlang+       	| Restructured	 | Original |
| Runtime dependencies	    | None	    	| Elixir, Logger | None     |
| In-REPL functions	    | Yes           	| No             | No       |

---

## Questions?

---

## Bonus slide #1

The missing slide on macros

```lfe
(defmacro ->
  ((x) x)
  ((x sexp) (when (is_list sexp))
   `(,(car sexp) ,x ,@(cdr sexp)))
  ((x sexp)
   `(list ,sexp ,x))
  ((x sexp . sexps)
   `(-> (-> ,x ,sexp) ,@sexps)))
```

---

## Bonus slide #2

```lfe
(defun universal-server ()
  (receive
    ((tuple 'become server-function)
     (funcall server-function))))

(defun factorial
  ((0) 1)
  ((number) (* number (factorial (- number 1)))))

(defun factorial-server ()
  (receive
    ((tuple sender number)
     (! sender (factorial number))
     (factorial-server))))

(defun run-it ()
  (let ((pid (spawn #'universal-server/0)))
    (! pid (tuple 'become #'factorial-server/0))
    (! pid (tuple (self) 50)))
  (receive
    (data data)))
```

Commit message:

Move the macro slide up

slides.md, after:

# LFE

![Lisp Cycles](http://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/lisp_cycles.png)

Alien technology on BEAM

---

## What's a Lisp?

1. Numbers
  ```lfe
  1
  ```
2. Symbols
  ```lfe
  'a
  ```
3. Lists
  ```lfe
  '(a b c)
  '(1 2 3)
  ```
4. More lists
  ```lfe
  '(1 a (1 2 3) (a b c))
  '((a 1) (b 2) (c 3))
  ```

---

## I was told there would be functions

Luckily, functions are just lists too:

```lfe
(defun hello ()
  (io:format "Hello, World!"))
```

Or a more erlangy helloworld: 

```lfe
(defun hello-server ()
  (spawn (lambda ()
    (receive
      ((tuple sender 'hello)
       (! sender "Hello to you too!"))))))

(defun hello-client () 
  (! (hello-server)
     (tuple (self) hello)))
```

---

## And what's with the apostrophes?

Because code is data and vice versa, quoting denotes what should and shouldn't be evaluated:

```lfe
(defun im-a-function ()
  (+ 2 2))

'(defun im-just-a-list ()
   (+ 2 2))
```

If that wasn't confusing enough, the backquote (or quasiquote) allows unquoting:

```lfe
(defun list-quoted (arg1 arg2)
  '(arg1 arg2))

(defun list-unquoted (arg1 arg2)
  `(,arg1 ,arg2))

(list-quoted 1 2)
; (arg1 arg2)
(list-unquoted 1 2)
; (1 2)
```

---

## What was that about code being data?

Well, all Lisp code is just a list, which means extending the language becomes incredibly simple:

```lfe
(defmacro ->
  ((x) x)
  ((x sexp) (when (is_list sexp))
   `(,(car sexp) ,x ,@(cdr sexp)))
  ((x sexp)
   `(list ,sexp ,x))
  ((x sexp . sexps)
   `(-> (-> ,x ,sexp) ,@sexps)))
```

<br/>

This is the thread-first macro, which is not dissimilar to Elixir's `|>` macro.

---

## Okay, so it's Lisp Flavored, but where's the Erlang?

LFE is in essence just an Erlang library.

![Properties of LFE](otp-properties.png)

---

## Erlang idioms as a Lisp

The purpose of LFE is not to force the semantics of any one Lisp dialect onto the Erlang VM, but rather to provide a transparent, efficient, homoiconic (or "syntaxless") front-end to Erlang.

### Transparent:
Interoperates seamlessly with Erlang and existing standard library.
### Efficient:
Shouldn't introduce a performance hit as you're still effectively writing Erlang.
### Homoiconic:
The syntax of the language is (mostly) identical to its ASTs.

---

## Erlang idioms as a Lisp - Pattern Matching

LFE idioms - such as pattern matching - are really Erlang idioms with a different syntax.

![Pattern matching from LFE](patterns.png)

---

## Comparison to other BEAM languages
<br/>

| Feature		    | LFE		| Elixir	 | Erlang   |
|:------------------------- |:----------------- |:-------------- |:------   |
| Macros              	    | Unhygienic    	| Hygienic	 | C-style  |
| Standard library    	    | Erlang+       	| Restructured	 | Original |
| Runtime dependencies	    | None	    	| Elixir, Logger | None     |
| In-REPL functions	    | Yes           	| No             | No       |

---

## Questions?

---

## Bonus slide

```lfe
(defun universal-server ()
  (receive
    ((tuple 'become server-function)
     (funcall server-function))))

(defun factorial
  ((0) 1)
  ((number) (* number (factorial (- number 1)))))

(defun factorial-server ()
  (receive
    ((tuple sender number)
     (! sender (factorial number))
     (factorial-server))))

(defun run-it ()
  (let ((pid (spawn #'universal-server/0)))
    (! pid (tuple 'become #'factorial-server/0))
    (! pid (tuple (self) 50)))
  (receive
    (data data)))
```
